README.md, before:

# SP2024-FP01-Glaciers
## Project Members: 
- Callum (callumh-c)
- Finley (fwolff03)
- Nate (NathanSedmak)
- Wade (wadekah)
## Summary: 


## Background Infomation:


## Problem statement, question(s) and/or objective(s):

We are going to model the change in Greenlandian Glaciers over time. To do this, we will use the included libraries to develop an animation of glacier coverage over time.

#### Questions:

How has the distribution and thickness of glaciers in Greenland changed in the recent past (~30 years)?

How does a glacier's elevation affect its thickness?

What additional insights can we gain from past glacier data?


#### Anaylze the specifics of the greenland glacier:

loss of mass/year

displacement/year

#### Objectives:

Cleanly organize the different datasets into individual dataframes

Convert any necessary columns to Numpy np.ndarrays if vector math is needed

Use Matplotlib to create simple plots of our data

Use Cartopy to create a heatmap of glacier presence in Greenland over time

## Datasets you will use (with links, if available):

These datasets from the NSIDC. The data set IDs are NSIDC-0625, NSIDC-0788, and RDWES1B
- https://nsidc.org/data/nsidc-0625/versions/1
- https://nsidc.org/data/nsidc-0788/versions/1
- https://nsidc.org/data/rdwes1b/versions/1
  
## Tools/packages you’ll use (with links):
Numpy (https://numpy.org/)

Pandas (https://pandas.pydata.org/)

Matplotlib (https://matplotlib.org/)

Xarray (https://pypi.org/project/xarray/)

Cartopy (https://pypi.org/project/Cartopy/)

## Planned methodology/approach:
We will use Matplotlib to create simple plots of our data and then use these plots to help in the creation of a heatmap over time. We will use Folium to display coverage of the Greenland Ice Sheet at each of the times we will analyze. We will animate the coverage of the ice sheet to show change over time. We will also compare these images to quantitatively describe the change in the ice sheet over time. 

## Expected outcomes:
Based on our prior knowledge, we expect to see a decrease in glacier thickness and coverage around the edge of Greenland, with an increase in thickness towards the middle of the island. Additionally, we expect higher elevations to support thicker glaciers, as both colder temperatures and overall mass gain in the interior of the island where higher elevations are more often found will contribute to increased glacier mass. 

## Any other relevant information, images/tables, references, etc.:


## References:

Commit message:

Updated datasets list and libraries

README.md, after:

# SP2024-FP01-Glaciers
## Project Members: 
- Callum (callumh-c)
- Finley (fwolff03)
- Nate (NathanSedmak)
- Wade (wadekah)
## Summary: 


## Background Infomation:


## Problem statement, question(s) and/or objective(s):

We are going to model the change in Greenlandian Glaciers over time. To do this, we will use the included libraries to develop an animation of glacier coverage over time.

#### Questions:

How has the distribution and thickness of glaciers in Greenland changed in the recent past (~30 years)?

How does a glacier's elevation affect its thickness?

What additional insights can we gain from past glacier data?


#### Anaylze the specifics of the greenland glacier:

loss of mass/year

displacement/year

#### Objectives:

Cleanly organize the different datasets into individual dataframes

Convert any necessary columns to Numpy np.ndarrays if vector math is needed

Use Matplotlib to create simple plots of our data

Use Cartopy to create a heatmap of glacier presence in Greenland over time

## Datasets you will use (with links, if available):

We will be using this dataset from the NSIDC. This dataset contains radar measurements of ice thickness across Greenland from 1993 to 2019. These measurements were taken across several plane flights each year. 
- https://nsidc.org/data/nsidc-0625/versions/1


## Tools/packages you’ll use (with links):
Numpy (https://numpy.org/)

Pandas (https://pandas.pydata.org/)

Matplotlib (https://matplotlib.org/)

Cartopy (https://pypi.org/project/Cartopy/)

## Planned methodology/approach:
We will use Matplotlib to create simple plots of our data and then use these plots to help in the creation of a heatmap over time. We will use Folium to display coverage of the Greenland Ice Sheet at each of the times we will analyze. We will animate the coverage of the ice sheet to show change over time. We will also compare these images to quantitatively describe the change in the ice sheet over time. 

## Expected outcomes:
Based on our prior knowledge, we expect to see a decrease in glacier thickness and coverage around the edge of Greenland, with an increase in thickness towards the middle of the island. Additionally, we expect higher elevations to support thicker glaciers, as both colder temperatures and overall mass gain in the interior of the island where higher elevations are more often found will contribute to increased glacier mass. 

## Any other relevant information, images/tables, references, etc.:


## References:
